Q:We know little about the original Divinities, but we know even less of their
Q:children, who were often too unimportant to record, except perhaps for this one
Q:child, who was too important to put to paper.
S:The City of Miracles, Robert Jackson Bennett

Q:"One should not seek ugliness in this world. There is no lack of it. You will
Q:find it soon enough, or it will find you."
S:The City of Miracles, Robert Jackson Bennett

Q:"What puzzles the dead are," says Taty. She looks away into the wilderness.
Q:"They take so much of themselves with them, you're not even sure who you're
Q:mourning."
S:The City of Miracles, Robert Jackson Bennett

Q:If [men] dared to love us, in patriarchal culture they would cease to be real
Q:"men"
S:The will to change, bell hooks

Q:The truth we do not tell is that men are longing for love.
S:The will to change, bell hooks

Q:There is one emotion that patriarchy values when expressed by men; that emotion
Q:is anger. Real men get mad. And their mad-ness,  no matter how violent or
Q:violating, is deemed natural — a positive expression of patriarchal masculinity.
S:The will to change, bell hooks

Q:In a loving relationship, abuse is unacceptable. You should not have to tolerate
Q:any abuse to be loved.
S:The will to change, bell hooks

Q:Ultimately the men who will choose against violence, against death, do so because
Q:they want to live fully and well, because they want to know love. These are men
Q:who are true heroes, the men whose lives we need to know about, honour, and
Q:remember.
S:The will to change, bell hooks

Q:I look at these long rows of words, the tombstones of my thoughts, and I do not
Q:know whether I have killed them, or given them life.
S:Death and the Dervish, Meša Selimović

Q:The river resembles me: sometimes turbulent and foaming, more often calm and
Q:inaudible. I was sorry when the dammed it up below the tekke and diverted it
Q:into a trench to make it obedient and useful, so it would run through a mill
Q:wheel. And I was happy when it swelled, destroyed the dam, and flowed free. I
Q:knew all the while that only tamed waters can mill wheat.
S:Death and the Dervish, Meša Selimović

Q:Her story was of no interest to me. for I knew the end as soon as I heard the
Q:beginning, and I was not moved at all by her compliment since it was insincere.
S:Death and the Dervish, Meša Selimović

Q:But this young man was not a suitable interlocutor. People in fact talk most
Q:often for their own sake, and with a need to hear the echo of their words.
S:Death and the Dervish, Meša Selimović

Q:We wanted the same thing from one another, each placing his faith in the
Q:strength of the other, both of us powerless, and that was the saddest part of
Q:this pointless encounter.
S:Death and the Dervish, Meša Selimović

Q:"Calm down."<br />
Q:"Why?"<br />
Q:"You've got a strange look on your face."<br />
Q:"Is it sad?"<br />
Q:"I wish it were sad."<br />
Q:"A few moments ago, in the graveyard, I waited in vain for something to give me a sign when I came to Harun's grave."<br />
Q:"You ask too much of yourself. It's enough that you grieve."
S:Death and the Dervish

Q:He believed that there were not only victories and defeats in life, that there was also breathing, and watching, and listening, and words, and love, and friendship, and ordinary life, which depends greatly on us and no one else.
S:Death and the Dervish

Q:It was as if that name bathed me in light. The time I had spent without him had worn me out. That day, then, at once—I needed him more than ever.
S:Death and the Dervish

Q:"It would be better if you never needed anyone's protection."<br />
Q:"He's right. It would be better if I don't ever need anyone protection. I should be my own shield. It's not right for me to burden a friend with troubles that I create myself. If you can't swim, you shouldn't jump in the water hoping someone will pull you out."<br />
Q:"But that someone wouldn't be a friend of they didn't do it. You understand friendship as freedom; I understand it as obligation. My friend is the same as I. If I protect them, I protect myself."<br />
S:Death and the Dervish

Q:See, Artyom, you obviously come from a station where the clock works and you all
Q:look at it in awe, comparing the time on your wrist watch to the red numbers
Q:above the tunnel entrance. For you, time is the same for everyone, just like
Q:light. Well, here it's the opposite: nothing is anyone else's business. No one
Q:is obliged to make sure there's light for all the people who have made their way
Q:here.  Go up to anybody here and suggest just that and it will seem absurd to
Q:them. Whoever needs light has to bring it here with them. It's the same with
Q:time: whoever needs to know the time, whoever is afraid of chaos, needs to bring
Q:their own time with them. Everyone keeps some time here. Their own time.  And
Q:it's different for everybody and it depends on their calculations, but they're
Q:all equally right, and each person believes in their own time, and subordinates
Q:their life to its rhythms. For me it's evening right now, for you it's morning -
Q:and what? People like you are so careful about storing up the hours you spend
Q:wandering, just as ancient peoples kept pieces of glowing coal in smouldering
Q:crucibles, hoping to resurrect fire from them. But there are others who lost
Q:their piece of coal, maybe even threw it away. You know, in the metro, it is
Q:basically always night-time and it makes no sense to keep track of time here so
Q:painstakingly. Explode your hours and you'll see how time will transform - it's
Q:very interesting. It changes - you won't even recognize it. It will cease to be
Q:fragmented, broken into the sections of hours, minutes and seconds. Time is like
Q:mercury: scatter it and it will grow together again, it will again find its own
Q:integrity and indeterminacy. People tamed it, shackled it into pocket-watches
Q:and stop-watches - and for those that hold time on a chain, time flows evenly.
Q:But try to free it and you will see: it flows differently for different people,
Q:for some it is slow and viscous, counted in the inhalations and exhalations of
Q:smoked cigarettes, for others it races along, and they can only measure it in
Q:past lives. You think it's morning now? There is a great likelihood that you are
Q:right: there's a roughly twenty five percent likelihood.  Nevertheless, this
Q:morning of yours has no sense to it, since it's up there on the surface and
Q:there's no life up there anymore. Well, there're no more people, anyway.  Does
Q:what occurs above have value for those who never go there? No. So when I say
Q:“good evening” to you, if you like, you can answer “good morning.” There's no
Q:time in this station, except perhaps one and it's very strange: now it is the
Q:four hundred and nineteenth day and I'm counting backwards.
S:Metro 2033, by Dmitry Glukhovsky

Q:He needs water,
Q:the one who has just arrived,
Q:dry clothes, and a warm welcome
Q:from a friendly host —
Q:and if he can get it,
Q:a chance to listen and be listen to.
S:The Wanderer's Hávamál, Translated by Jackson Crawford

Q:Try to choose carefully, Arren, when the great choices must be made. When I was
Q:young, I had to choose between the life of being and the life of doing. And I
Q:leapt at the latter like a trout to a fly. But each deed you do, each act, binds
Q:you to itself and to its consequences, and makes you act again and yet again.
Q:Then very seldom do you come upon a space, a time like this, between act and
Q:act, when you may stop and simply be. Or wonder who, after all, you are
S:Earthsea - The Four Books, by Ursula Le Guin

Q:If you don't speak, what can I do but leave you?
S:Earthsea - The Four Books, by Ursula Le Guin

Q:It’s none of their business, where you are, or who you are, or what you
Q:choose to do or not to do! If they come prying they can leave curious.
S:Earthsea - The Four Books, by Ursula Le Guin

Q:- She obeys me, but only because she wants to.<br/>
Q:- It’s the only justification for obedience, Ged observed.
S:Earthsea - The Four Books, by Ursula Le Guin

Q:- She's my best friend, Sam said.<br/>
Q:- Sure, Max said, I get that. But is it, you know—I hope this isn't weird that
Q:I'm asking this—is it romantic? Or has it ever been romantic?<br/>
Q:- No, Sam said. We've never... It's more than romantic. It's better than
Q:romance. It's friendship.
S:Tomorrow, and Tomorrow, and Tomorrow, by Gabrielle Zevin

Q:It was never worth worrying about someone you didn't love. And it wasn't love if
Q:you didn't worry.
S:Tomorrow, and Tomorrow, and Tomorrow, by Gabrielle Zevin

Q:Sam's doctor said to him, "The good news is that the pain is in your head."
Q:<i>But I am in my head</i>, Sam thought.
S:Tomorrow, and Tomorrow, and Tomorrow, by Gabrielle Zevin

Q:Sam knew the foot was gone. He could see it was gone. He knew that what he was
Q:experiencing was a basic error in programming, and he wished he could open up
Q:his brain and delete the bad code. Unfortunately, the human brain is very bit as
Q:closed a system as a Mac.
S:Tomorrow, and Tomorrow, and Tomorrow, by Gabrielle Zevin

Q:A programmer is a diviner of possible outcomes, and a seer of unseen worlds.
S:Tomorrow, and Tomorrow, and Tomorrow, by Gabrielle Zevin

Q:Live all you can; it’s a mistake not to. It doesn’t so much matter what you do in particular, so long as you have your life. If you haven’t had that what have you had? What one loses one loses; make no mistake about that. [...] Still, one has the illusion of freedom; therefore don’t be, like me, without the memory of that illusion. I was either, at the right time, too stupid or too intelligent to have it; I don’t quite know which. Of course at present I’m a case of reaction against the mistake; and the voice of reaction should, no doubt, always be taken with an allowance. But that doesn’t affect the point that the right time is now yours. The right time is any time that one is still so lucky as to have. You’ve plenty; that’s the great thing; you’re, as I say, damn you, so happily and hatefully young. Don’t at any rate miss things out of stupidity. Of course I don’t take you for a fool, or I shouldn’t be addressing you thus awfully. Do what you like so long as you don’t make my mistake. For it was a mistake. Live!
S:The Ambassadors, by Henry James

Q:On ne peut pas être sûr si la question n'a pas été posée,
Q:Et si on la pose<br />
Q:C'est bien qu'on est loin d'être sûr<br />
Q:C'est certain
S:Mon Grand, Ugo R.

Q:Mais cette fois c'était sûr. J'étais quelqu'un. Enfin depuis le<br />
Q:premier jour on est quelqu'un. Enfin, depuis le premier<br />
Q:jour on nait quelqu'un. C'est qu'après, faut encore<br />
Q:le devenir
S:Mon Grand, Ugo R.

Q:Je voulais<br />
Q:Je voulais vous dire<br />
Q:Je voulais vous dire Messie<br />
Q:<br />
Q:Que je ne vous suivrai pas.<br />
Q:<br />
Q:(Puis la brebis partie Jeune et trottant<br />
Q:Elle aussi<br />
Q:<br />
Q:Pour son printemps.)
S:Apocryphe de la vierge brebis, Ugo R.

Q:"But where to hide the evidence?" Monkey wondered. "Judging by the terrible
Q:smell, I suspect behind that for over there is a Bureau of Rice Reincarnation.
Q:Stash the real statues in there, would you?"
S:Monkey King, Wu Cheng'en

Q:Who could know if Felix would ever have friends? Friendship, companionship: it
Q:so often defied logic, so often eluded the deserving, so often settled itself on
Q:the odd, the bad, the peculiar, the damaged.
S:A little life, Hanya Yanagihara

Q:None of them really wanted to listen to someone else's story anyway; they only
Q:wanted to tell their own.
S:A little life, Hanya Yanagihara

Q:"You looked really, really nice. You're a great looking kid; I hope someone's
Q:told you that before." And then, before he could protest, "acceptance, Jude".
S:A little life, Hanya Yanagihara

Q:"If I were a different kind of person, I might say that this whole incident is a
Q:metaphor for life in general: things get broken, and sometimes they get
Q:repaired, and in most cases, you realize that no matter what gets damaged, life
Q:rearranges itself to compensate for your loss, sometimes wonderfully."
S:A little life, Hanya Yanagihara

Q:"You won't understand what I mean now, but someday you will: the only trick of
Q:friendship, I think, is to find people who are better than you are — not
Q:smarter, not cooler, but kinder, and more generous, and more forgiving — and
Q:then to appreciate them for what they can teach you, and to try to listen to
Q:them when they tell you something about yourself, no matter how bad — or good —
Q:it might me, and to trust them, which is the hardest thing of all. But the best
Q:as well."
S:A little life, Hanya Yanagihara

Q:He imagines people on the street looking up from their phones and into each
Q:other's eyes — <i>Hello, how are you? Why are you so sad? How can we do
Q:better?</i>
S:How high we go in the dark, Sequoia Nagamatsu
